---
title: Principles that influences behavior
date: 2019-03-05 18:28:14
tags:
---

A nudge may increase one's spendings or sometimes, creating an ambient environment may influence what you buy in a store. There are several principles that we interact with on a daily basis, which might help us design better products.

# Limit the number of items to increase the number bought for users.

-  When there are a limited or scarce resource and high demand "3 stickers left!" people are more willing to pay <b>excessive amounts</b> for the product or service.


-   The perceived fear of missing out on something is particularly motivating as we are loss averse.


-   We find <b>losses roughly twice as painful as gains are pleasurable</b>

Limiting the number of soups cans that a person could buy. When a limit was set, the amount of cans customers purchased went up.

# Context may influence your behavior for users.

Sensory priming is about how our behavior can be influenced by each of our 5 senses ( sight, sound, smell, taste and touch )

An experiment in the UK tested playing music from a number of countries in a wine shop. French wine outsold German wine when French music was playing and vice-versa. 

In Amsterdam, they were presenting a new collection of Japanese skin care and perfumes for men. 


Added decorations to the room in a Japanese style. Create an entirely new environment only for the collection. You see in stores they're cologne section, music section, etc. Make sections and environments in your app dedicated to your product.

# Remove the $ symbol for users.

* Thinking about spending money can make you experience a kind of physical pain.

<b>Removing the currency symbol or the currency word ( dollars ) from menus, average spending can increase by %12</b>. 
Because people who only see numerical value, are less converned about the price of what they are ordering

Paying with credit cards. Only the fact that we don't see losing money ( paying for something  ) makes the act of paying less tedious. - loss aversion

# Loss aversion for users
 Loss aversion refers to people's tendency to avoiding losses to acquiring gains. 

- It is better to not lose $5.00 than to find $5.00

The utility of a monetary payoff depends on what was before experienced. On was expected to happen. <b>Losses are twice as powerful pyschologically as gains.</b>

# What factors moderate the ability for our users?

A person needs to be able to perform an action. The easier it is to perform it, the greater is the likelihood of it becoming a habit.

-   The time it takes to use it
- The money it costs.

- The level of of finger effort involved.
- Level of mental labour needed
- Product or app's social acceptability
- Level to which it disrupts or matches routines.

<b>The lower the time, money, physical effort or mental labour involved, or the more socially acceptable it is , or the least moving it requires from a user's existing routine, the easier it is for him to perform an action.</b>


# How to increase motivation and ability for users?

Mental shortcuts that all of us employ to make quick decisions.

[] The Scarcity Effect
    Scarcer a product is, 
    the higher is it's perceived value, 
    'limited stock' tag on Amazon products
    ends up increasing sales for those products

[] The Framing Effect
    Context can alter the desirability
    of a product, e.g. some wine is reported to be tastier if the price is increased.

[] The endowed progress effect 

Rewarded programs, the closer users feel they are to the goal the more motivated they become, e.g. the 'Improve Your Profile Stength' step in LinkedIn has a completion bar that starts off all users with part of the bar already filled, strengthening their belief that a full profile is not far away

# Reward for users
  - <b>Variable Rewards</b> make users come back to an app again and aagain by reinforcing motivation.

  - <b>Finite variability</b> can become boring after a while while infinite variability sustains user interest

  - <b>Rewards of the hunt</b> those that satisfy our basic survival instincts by helping us acquire things we consider important, like cash and information, blog posts.

  - <b> Rewards of the self </b>

  The self-determination reward. I think of self-determination as having ties behind your back and still running to the finish line. 

  A sense of accomplishments! apps like Gmail, how they segment emails into neat folders, helping achieve a state of inbox zero; giving a sense of completion and misery. 

  It is also important to provide users with a sense of autonomy or choice -- a reward when they feel constrained might not work. If they feel they are being forced, they rebel.

# Attention for users

Attention is what changes the brain. If you focus peoples's attention long enough, you can change your brain. 

Think of attention as your asset and liability, your go-grab.

First, create a safe environment.

Second, help others focus their attention in just the right ways to create new connections. 

Lastly, you have to get people coming back to pay attention to their new circuits over and over again. 

Attention is the asset you have from each user. It might beat the priority of cash. Rather than hoping on faatures and facts, hop on emotions.`