---
title: 7 Principles of Interaction
date: 2019-03-10 21:47:48
tags:
---

## Discoverability 

Usually when the word discoverability is used about the internet it refers to how easy content is to find -- either due to SEO
Discoverability when referring to design is something different - it's whether it's possible to figure out how to use an object by interacting with it. Create a world that users can easily locate themselves in. Users need to be able to quickly get a sense of where they are, what is going on and where they can go from there. <b> Sensible information architecture and clear navigation are key to this.</b>

## Affordance

Design for limited attention and scanning. Users have limited time, limited attention and limited patience.

     Cut unnecessary content ( noise ) from your site.

    Break content into easily digestible chunks and make key tasks highly visible.

## Signifiers 
Communicate where the action should take place. Avoiding jargon is good for everyone but especially important when considering accessibility and making the web experience accessible to all.

## Mappings.

    Similar to .map in JavaScript
    Design with "affordance" in mind, using visual cues to ensure users are clear on how to engage with design elements. Use visual cues.

## Feedback 
Design for how people perceive and group information. We humans share commonalities in how we percieve and make sense of the world.

## Conceptual Models
Understand user's emotional states when they engage with your experience. For example, they might be concerned and want to be reassured or may be bored and looking for entertainment. <b>Designing an experience based on a user's emotional model, that connects with those emotions adds value and meaning to every interaction!</b

## Constraints

Constraints limit the actions that can be performed by the user.
