---
title: Event Driven Architecture, patterns.
date: 2019-03-17 21:01:23
tags: events patterns mixins proactor reactor redundancy
---

<b> event</b> - a significant change in state.

Event architecture's typically consists of event emitters ( or agents ), event consumers or sinks and event channels. Emitters has responsibility to detect, gather and transfer events. An EventEmitter does not know the consumers of the event. A sink may have to filter, transform and forward the event to another component of=r it might provide a self-contained reaction to such event. Channels are enduits in which events are transmitted from event emitters to event consumers.
<b>Application state</b> can be copied across multiple parallel snapshots for high-availability. New events emitted anywhere.

## Layers

An event body provides details of the state change.
An event could be made of two parts, the event header and event body, event name, timestamp, type.


# Reactor design pattern
 Event handling pattern for handling service requests delivered concurrently to a service handler by one or more inputs

# Proactor design pattern
 For event-handling in which long-running activities are running in an asynchronous part. A comletion handler is called after the asynchronous post has been terminated.

- <b>Redundancy</b> is the duplication of critical components or functions of a system with the intention of increasingg reliability of the system. Usually in the form of a backup or fail safe.

- <b>Fault tolerant</b> - a property that enables a system to continue operating properly in the event of the failure or at a reduced level of self-stabilization
- <b> Data redundancy</b> - existence of data that is additional to the actual data and permits correction of errors in stored or transmitted data.

Let these labels define the operations in your code. 