---
title: Remote Work | Meetings
date: 2019-03-20 13:19:39
tags: remote work meetings
---

Chances are your time/team has a faster-roster of new tools. Important questions is how and when to use these tools to convey the right informaation : Is this information time sensitive? If yes, go to chat. If no, go to Trello. For example, if you have a project update that is not time-sensitive, pinging people in chat may be distracting and take them from the brilliant  state of zen concentration they've been trying to reach all day. 

## 4 Truths of Video
 "Recognizing the humanity in the team members"

 01. Tools can mask intention.

 02. If you have constructive feedback to give, do it over a video call. so your intentions come across.
 03. Due to lack of verbal and emotional cues. One may perceive a chat convo as an argument when the other person perceives it as a discussion.

 04. Resentment builds over time due to underlying issues not being addressed.

    "Video conferencing is not Big Brother"
    To make collaborations work for everyone, there is one key rule:
    1. Unles everyone is in the same room, all meetings are held over video conference.
    2. Video call ettiquette 
        - Mute when your not speaking
        - Keep your video on to stay engaged 
        and avoid taking calls when in a noisy coffeeshop
    3. Internet a priority for local and remote.

     "Each person should feel equally represented and present in the meeting."

     ### It's hard to track conversations both visually ( trying to see whos talking ) and audibly ( with varying distances from microphone )

     If you want to help your team bond..
     Allocate portions of the meeting for ice-breaker games, company and gossip/
## ALL THE TOOLS MAKE REMOTE WORK COOL.
After all, if technology hadn't advanced to what it is today. Remote wotk wouldn't even be possible. 

### Slack
    Engaing, fun-to-use tool 
    for team communication
    especially for remote teams
### Stride 
    New kid with new/unique features
    such as focus mode, decision-making,
    status message
    * "Sipping pina coladas on vacation" *

Nearly all of our conversations happen in public Slack channels, so anyone can chime in and read up on what's happening helpful when working as a team across different time zones
Remote work is an important shift in how our society operates in that it opens doors for many who weren't able to walk through them before. We're shaping the future of work"
Assume positive intention . Always. Tone and nuance can get lost. All remote team-members are equal but their experiences differ.