---
title: Messaging Patterns
date: 2019-03-21 23:24:44
tags: patterns messaging
---

## Publish / Subscribe messaging
Where senders of messages, called publishers do not program the messages to be sent directly to specific receivers, called subscribers, but instead categorize published messages into classes without knowledge of subscribers. Similarly subscribers express interest in one or more classes and only receive messages that are of interest without knowledge of which publishers. <b>dynamic network topology</b>


### Topic-based messages
Published to topics or named logical channels. Subscribers in a topic based system will recieve all messages published to the topic to which they subscribed
and all subscribers to a topic will recieve the same messages. The publisher is responsible for defining the classes of messages to which be subscribed.

### Content-based messages
Only delivered to a subscriber if the attributes or content of those messages match contraints defined by the subscriber. The subscriber is responsible for classifying the messages

## Topologoies
    Intermediary computer progam module that translates a message from the formal messaging protocol of the receiver
    Message brokers are elements in telecommunication or computer networks where software applications communicate
    by exchanging formally defined messages.

## Loose-coupled    
    Not even need to know of their existence with the topic being the focus, pubs & subs are to remain ignorant of system topology.