---
title: Seperation Paradigms
date: 2019-03-22 23:36:31
tags:	
---

There are two software paradigms that speaks a lot on computer programs in distinct ways and this post is to guide you to develop more <b>seperated</b> web application systems.





## Seperation of Concerns



Separating a computer program into distinct sections, such that each section<b>s</b> addresses a seperate concern.

A  concern is a set of information that affects the code of a computer program. 

Of value it is to improve or modify one section of code without having to know the details of other sections.

Separated into distinct sections so that each section addresses a specific concern. By distinguishing parts of our code within well-defined interfaces, we can create programs that have distinct subroutines. Furthermore, these subroutines may be utilized by other programs. This may seem like a very simple concept, but if your actively trying to compartmentalize parts of your program it can be very easy to simply write spahghetti code.. We seperate things by similarity so that we can maintain order and accessibility.

### Seperation of mechanism and policy.



States that mechanisms ( these parts of a system implementation that control the authorization of operations and the allocation of resources ) should not dictate or overly restrict the policies according to which decisions are made about which ops to authorize and which resources to allocate.

### Motivation

"It is one is willing to study in depth an aspect of one's subject one is occupying matter in isolation for the onself only with sake of its own consistency, one of the aspects all the time knowing that A program must be correct."