---
title: 60
date: 2019-03-25 15:22:09
tags:
---

# 01 Programming Principles



Abstraction principle - reduce duplication of information in a program whenever practical by making use of abstractions provided by the language or software library your using.



Cohesion - The degree to which the elements inside a module belong together. A measure of the strength of relationship between the class's methods and data themselves. "high" is more robust. "low" associated with maintainability issues.



Dependency - inversion principle High level modules should not depend on details. Details should depend on abstractions.



Defensive Programming ~ intended to ensure the continuing function of a piece of software under unforeseen circumstances. 

- Behave in predictable manner despite unexpected inputs and user actions.
- - reducing the number of software bugs and problems.



# Composition over inheritance

Intended to say classes should achieve polymorphic behavior and code reuse by their composition (by containing instances of other classes that implement the desired functionality ) rather than inheritance from a base or parent



# Discoverability 

The degree to which of something, especially a piece of content or information can be found in a search of a file, database or info-system

.

# Command-Query Seperation

Bertrand Meyer, Every method should either be a command that performs an action, or a query. Asking a question should not change the answer - that returns data to caller



## Fail Fast

In which a system immediately reports at its interface any condition that is likely to indicate a failure. Designed to stop normal operation rather than attempt to continue a possibly flawed process.



# Information- Hiding principle

ability to prevent certain aspects of a class or software component from being accessible to its clients using either programming language features ( like private variables) or an explicit exporting policy either change how you hide it or how you export it.



