---
title: 02 Software Principles of Software
date: 2019-03-26 18:07:13
tags: software principles
---



##
## Open-closed principle
Principle -- states software entities ( classes, modules, functions, etc. ) should be open for extension, but closed for modification.
    If you have code that requires data,
    you can have an array of that data from inside the module.

    1. Adding data manually from inside the array will break OCP
    2. You can create add and remove methods to have data from the code to be modified.
Handling new usage scenarios require little intervention
 
## POLA ( Principle of least astonishment )
applies to user interface and software design. 1989 If a necessary feature has a high astonishment feature/factor, it may be necessary to redesign the feature.

-    Avoid No-Ops
    Avoid "spooky action at a distance" to deride the concept of quantum entanglement. Imagine your users interaction encountering a "Not Implemented" exception. Then why include it in your production code?! A problem which, you guessed it, surprises users. 
-    Naming
    It's absolutely hard but incredibly important so that just means that you need to make the effort. Giving the right name can mean the difference between an intuitive API and a surprising one. Go ask another developer how they think they would use your code and see if they get it right with the names you've used
    If the code that runs your API astonishes your users, you're failing at the principle of least surprise. 

    Meaning, a component of a system should behave in a way that users expect it to behave; that is, users should not be astonished by it's behavior.
-    Naturl > Surprise 
    The command line in Mac vs the Windows key in Windows. Both feel natural to users.
