---
title: Good Coding Techniques
date: 2019-03-27 16:21:43
tags:
---

# Optimization vs Readability

Write code that will be simple to read and which will be understandable for developers, Because time and resources that will be spent on hard readable code will be much higher than what you get from optimization.



# Architecture First

"We need to do things fast because we have no time on making architecture Before writing your first line of code,  you should know understand what it will be doing, how, what it will use, how modules services will work with each other, what structure will it have, how it will be tested and debugged, and how it will be updated."





# Test Coverage	

Tests are a good thing but they are not always affordable and make sense for the project. 

- ​	Write modules, micro-services which will not be touched for at least one month. 
- When writing open source code. 
- When you don't need tests:
  - - When you are a startup.
    - When you have small team and code changing is fast.
    - When you write scripts that can be simply tested manually by their output.
- Remember that <b>code with badly written tests can be more harmful</b> then code without tests.



# Keep It Simple Stupid

Don't write complex code. More it simpler then less bugs it may have and less time needed to debug them without tons of abstraction and other OOP shit + 20% of things that may be needed in future to update it in simple way. 



# Comments

Comments showing bad code. Good code should do only be understandable without a line of comments. But what do do to save time for new developers.

- Write simple inline documentation describing what and how methods work, This will save much time for understanding even more - it will give people more chances to come up with better implementation of this method.



# Mood

Don't write code when you are tired or in a bad mood. When developers tired they are making x2-5 more bugs and mistakes when when they are full of energy. So working more is bad practice. That's why more and more countries thinking about 6 hours work day and some of them already have it. Mental work is not the same as working with your biceps.





