---
title: Programming Paradigms
date: 2019-03-27 19:31:40
tags: programming paradigms lists
---



## Imperative Programming

Use statements that change the state of a program. In a way, it is like following a recipe. The imperative programming is concerned with <b>defining a linear procedure or sequence of programming statements.</b></b>It consists of commands for the computer to perform. It could be summarized with the sentence "first do this, next do this".



- Imperative programming approach is to treat any solution like a series of steps to be performed. So, it uses procedures, functions, subroutines or method to split the program in small tasks and that makes possible to resue the code as many times as we want in the program.



First imperative languages were the machine languages and hardware implementation of nearly all computer is imperative because it is designed to execute machine code.



## Declarative Programming

Describes what it does, but not how it does it, So we program by specifiying the result we want but not how to get it. It means that the control flow is implicit no loops and no assignments.



## Structured Programming

Structured Programming paradigm removes global variables , GOTO, and Re introduces local variables. It means that we create blocks that contain instructions that don't depend on any other, Here, control flow is defined by nested loops, conditionals and subroutines.



## Functional Programming

Treats manipulation as the evaluation of mathematical functions and avoids changing state and mutable data. So, it sees all subprograms as functions that have arguments and return a single solution based on the input. It means that every time a function is called with the argument x it will be produce the same result.



This paradigm allows to pass functions to functions and to return functions from functions. Here, the control flow is expressed by combining function calls, rather than by assigning values to variables.



### Logical Programming

Paradigm expresses a set of sentences in a logical form. It means that the logical assertions about a specific situation are made, then its checked if it still true or not. It can be viewed as controlled deduction. We focus on facts stored in memory, called the knowledge base. It is a form of Declarative Programming and the process flow is reversed because it asserts result first. One represenative language would belong.



## Object-Oriented

Data is represented as objects. These objects are instances of classes that have attributes representing data fields and functions called methods.



- Objects are instances of classes that have attributes, representing data fields and functions called methods. Objects are seperate entitiees and have their own state which is modified built-in methods. In OO, programs are based on the sending of messages to objects that respond by performing operations.





These programming paradigms are useful for your knowledge refridgerator of information for all your programming project recipes.