---
title: Pocket software architecture definitions.
date: 2019-03-30 20:31:05
tags:

---



#### Shim

small library that transparently interprets API calls and changes the arguments passed, handles the operation itself or redirects the operation itself on redirects the operation elsewhere. Shims can be used to support an old API in a new environment or a newer API in an older environmnent. 



Shim can also be used for running programs on different software platforms than that they were developed for. 

Web polyfills code that implements a feature on web browsers that do not support that feature. 



#### Backward Compatibility

A property of a system, product or technology that allows for interoperability with an older legacy system or with input designed for such system. sometimes called downward compatibility. A complimentary concept is forward compatibility. A design that is forward compatible usually has a roadmap for compatibility for future products and standards.

 It's appeal to an existing user base through an inexpensive upgrade path as well as the network effect. Which is important,  as it increases the value of goods and services proportionally to the size of the userbase. 



- A <b>good example</b> is <b>Wii</b> which is compatible for Nintendo Gamecube 



####  Thunk

A subroutine used to inject an additional calculation into another subroutine.. Thunks are primarily used to delay a calculation until its result is needed, or to insert operations at the beginning or end of the other subsroutine. They have a variety of other applications in compiler code generation and modular programming. Originated as a jocular derivative of "think".



#### Buffer

A buffer is primairly used for input and output and sometimes very temporary sotrage of data that is either en route between other media data that maybe modified in a non-sequential manner before it is written (or read) in a sequential manner.



