---
title: 3 Software Principles to Improve your Code
date: 2019-04-01 21:49:00
tags: principles programming
---



### 3 Software Principles to Improve Your Code



## Inverson-of-control (IoC)

A design principle in which custom, written portions of a computer program receive the flow of control from a generic framework. Inverts control as compared to the purpose of the program calls into reusable libraries to take care of generic tasks but with IoC. It is the framework that calls into the custom, or task-specific code.

- Modularity
- Extensible



## Law of Demeter

A specific case of loose coupling. Demeter, "Distribution mother" and the Greek goddess of agriculture.

- Each unit should have only limited knowledge about other units: only units closely tied to the current unit.
- Each unit should only talk to its friends & don't talk to strangers.
- Only talk to your immediate friend.
- ObJect should assume as little as possible about the structure of properties of anything else.



## Substitutability

If S is a subtype of T, then objects of type T may be replaced with objects of Type S. ( i.e. an object of type T may be substitued with any object of a Subtype S) without altering any of the desirable properties of the program (correctness, task performed, etc).



## Offensive Programming

Reaction to extreme interpretations of defensive programming. Rather, offensive programming adds an explicit priority of NOT tolerating errors in wrong places.



## Ninety-ninety rule 

Humurous opharism

"The first 90 percent of the code accounts for the first 90 percent of the development time. The remaning 10 percent of the code accounts for the other 90 percent of the development time"



## Uniform access principle 

States all services offered by  a module should be availalable through a uniform notation, which does not betray whether they are implemented through storage or through computation. No synctactical difference between working with an attribute, pre-computed property, or method/query of an object.



## Single Responsibility Principle

States every module or class should have responsibility over a single part of the functionality provided by the software, and that responsibility should be entirely encapsulated by the class. All its services should be narrowly aligned with that responsibility. Robert C. Martin expresses the principle as "A class should have only one reason to change."



##  "Worse is better"

"Quality does not necessarily increase with functionality — that there is a point where less functionality is a preferable option". Software that is <b>limited may be but simple to use may be more appealing to the user and market in reverse. Gabriel states it has better survival characteristics than the right thing.





### YAGNI You aren't gonna need it.

A principle of extreme programming(XP) that states a programmer should not add functionality until deemed necessary "Always implement things when you actually need them, never when you just foresee that you need them".

### Zero One or Infinity (ZOI)

Rule argues the  number of limits on the number of instances of a particular entity should not be allowed. Only one should be allowed or any number of them should be.



### Decomposition

Breaking a complex problem or system into parts that are easier to conceive, understand, program and maintain.