---
title: 10 Behaviors that will make you an unstoppable programmer!
date: 2019-04-16 12:11:11
tags:
---

Get better at programming by reading this article.

Learning to build full-fledged apps from scratch is a timely process. It's a learning curve. To finallly have confidence to build things. Some people get trained from company. Slowly challenged over supervision, they learn to build things.

There's another way.. Hacker's way

### 1. Acknowledge that micro-decisions matter.

Writing code often feel like there are billion decisions in a jar, even when your adding a small bean. Things like naming variables, calling functions, naming CSS properties. "Beginner" programmers often give little attention to these things.

Unstoppable programmers develop patterns to help them name variables, and they reach a point where they always name things the same way.

### 2. Acknowledge that major decisions don't matter that much to unstoppable programmers.

In the process of builing out your applications, you'll make major decisions that will impact how you write most of your code. <b>People have really strong opinions about these types of decisions.</b> Unstoppable developers think differenlt and tend to not care too much. They value the habit of writing tests, and they understand that the specifc tooling that you use to do so isn't as important.

### 3. Stomach the punch

Experienced programmers know what to use for each problem that they encounter. They're willing to stomach the pain of learning something new if it will ultimately allow them to be more productive.

### 4. Understand that code is cheap

You need to be ok with scrapping hunndreds of lines of code to do things in a different way. <b>This is the good part. Think in terms of input/output. Computers? I/O! </b>
Many people look at scrapping code in favor of something else as a waste of time. But the experience gained from writing the code should actually be considered an 'output' just like shippable code. It's simple part of the proces that led to the result. You can't gurantee you'll know the documentation the first time you read it. Experience gained from writing code should be raw "output" not a detailed-analytical masterpiece.

### 5. Evaluate technologies based on all their merits.

The "stuff" doesn't matter. What makes you valuable isn't what you know but rather your adherence to these behaviors of deep-focusing to solve a coding problem. Unstoppable programmers know that every technology (programming language, frameowrk, libraary, etc) could no longer be a viable option tomorrow. They think about programming at a higher level. "Would this syntax perform faster on ES6 or this system?"

Say "I don't know"

### 6. Know the difference between a premature optimization and a show-stopping optimization that needs to happen 


<b>Code often has trade offs</b> And typically there are two different ways you can wirte your code. 

Write your code in the most straight-forward way possible. 

Write your code in a more confusing way to be more faster.

Since people wan't these 2-3million user applications to be fast, you need to consider how long it will take your code to execute.

Unstoppable programmers know the right time to write code thats a bit more confusing but will be faster.

### 7. Think beyond the immediate issue

Unstoppable programmers know how to deal with problems in a way that leads to more long term solutions. 
    - Long-term solutions
    - Think of a problem at a larger scale
Are you constantly having bugs in your code to fix?
Production site going down multiple times?

### 8. Difficult to learn but immensely valuable

To be unstoppable, you should develop the ability to learn new things on the fly, like:
    - Performance testing
    - Server Configuration 
    - Data migration from different systems
You need to know how to stay cool and navigate a new situation with ease. Difficult to learn but immensely valuable.

### 9. Dive into large open source projects to bring your features to life.

Impossible is nothing if you know how to monkey patch a solution. Developers need to gain a good understanding of the code. ( Input and Output  )

### 10. Always analyze the clues found in error messages. 
    Error messages are often associated with failure. However, good programmers know that these messages are actually clues that lead you down the path to find the right solution ( Input / Output ). Most of the time programmers see errors as a dead end but it's really a path.



