---
title: Technological progress vs wear of time
date: 2019-04-24 23:25:49
tags:
---
Our computers and devices are creating 55 million tons of discarded electronics each year. This technology is hard to manufacture. Widening your options of how software is hosted.

Saas companies run purchased servers in rented racks in data centres. Companies had to physicalluy buy, install, maintain to delivering services to users.

If a user wanted to know what impact their usage was having on the environment, the company could tell them where the machines were bought from, where were manufactured, who installed and where was sent to for recycling after they were out of warranty and replaced. 


If you were starting a company now, you'd be mad not use cloud providers. You don't need to worry about data center precurement and signing contracts or peeling through binders full of hardwae specifications to pick out the right machines to order and certainly not hoofing them out of a truck and wiring them in. 

A level of transparency in the close relationship required between technology company, data center, and hardware supplier, much in the same way people like to know which form eggs come from and whether the chickens are free range and live good lives.

If you wanted to run some software you created , you just start an account, put in your credit card and click a few buttons. You now have some computing space available to you and addressable globally for as long as you want to pay for it, and the provider looks after the machine for you. Wonderful.