---
title: 7 Stages of Action ( Notes from DOET)
date: 2019-04-24 23:59:33
tags:
---

## 3 Stages of of Action In Design

Clicking a button, scrolling, sign up, pin, trash, collect. Actions!



Cognitive thoughts lead to emotions; emotion drive cognitive thoughts. The brain is structured to act upon the world, and <ul>every action carries with it expectations, and these expectations drive emotions</ul>

The emotional system is a powerful information processing system that works in tandem with cognition. 

Cognition attempts to make sense of the world: emotion assigns value. Cognition provides understanding: emotion provides value to judgements. 



A human without a working emotional system has difficulty making choices.

A human without a cognitive system is dysfunctional.



#### The Visceral Level

The visceral system allows us to respond quickly and subconciously without concious awareness of control.

(Instant notifications, instant access no awareness of control , response quicness is priority, emergencies, flashes, extremism, unaffected by context or history)

- Minimizes its ability to learn.
- Responds to the immediate present and produces an affective state, relatively unaffected by context or history.
- Tightly coupled to the body's musculature - the motor system. This is what causes us to fight or flee, or to relax.

For the tech designers, the visceral response is about immediate perception. This has nothing to do with how usable, effective or understandable the product is. It is all about attraction and repulsion. 



#### The Behavioral Level

The behavioral level is the home of learned skills triggered by situations that match the appropriate patterns. ( aware of open door, response is too quick (unlock & enter we learned how to open a door ) for concious control. Behavior takes control triggered by the well-learned action)



- Actions and analyses at this level are highly subconscious.
- We aware of our actions, unaware of details. Our responses occur for too quickly for concious control. It is the behavior level that takes control.
- When we perform a well-learned action, think of goal and the behavioral level handles details the concious mind bus little or no awareness beyond creating the desire to act. ( openening your phone, previous page, new todo item)

The most critical aspect of the behavioral level is that every action is associated with an expectation. Information in the feedback loop of evaluation confirms or disconfirms the expectations resulting in three (3) results:

1. satisfaction (fulfillment of one's wishes, expectations, or needs, or the pleasure derived from this.)
2. relief (a feeling of reassurance and relaxation following release from anxiety or distress.)
3.  disappointment ( sadness or displeasure caused by the nonfulfillment of one's hopes or expectations. )



##### Feedback is critical to managing expectations, and good design provides this. — is how expectations are resolved and is critical to learning and the development of skilled behavior. expectation ===  resolved ? Unresolved :



#### The Reflective Level

The refelective level is the home of concious cognition where reasoning and concious decision-making take place. The visceral and behavioral levels are subconscious and, as a result, respond quickly but without much analysis. Reflection is cognitive deep and slow. It often occurs after the events have happend.



Design must take place at all levels:  Visceral, Behaviroal and Reflective

Reflection is the most important of the levels of processing. Reflection is conscious, and emotions produced at this level are the most protracted: Memories last for longer than the immediate experience or the period usage.

- It is reflection that drives us to reccommend a product, to reccommend a product that others use or avoid..



Emotion and cognition are tightly interwined. All three levels work together to determine a person's cognitive and emotional state.

Visceral response is at the lowest level: the control of simple muscles and sensing the state of the world and body. Behavioral level is about expectations, so it is sensitive to the expectation of the action sequence and then interpretation of the feedback.



### Flow state 

Thiis occurs when the challenge of the activity just slightly exceeds our skill level, so full attention is continually required. Flow requires that the activity be neither too easy nor too difficult relative to our level of skill. The constant tension coupled with continual progress and success can be an engaging, immersive experience sometimes lastings for hours.

### Blaming The Wrong Thing

People tend to assign a casual relation whenever two things occur in succession.

1. If something unexpected happens in my home just after I taken some action, opt to conclude that it was caused by that action,
2. If I do something expecting a result and nothing happens, I am opt to interpret the lack of feedback as an indication that I didnt do the action correctly.

Often  people will use their own conceptual models of the world to determine the perceived casual relationship between the things being blamed and the result. The casual relationship does not have to exist; person simply has to think it is there result is too attribute cause to things that has nothing to do with the action.



##### Learned Helplessness

Refers to the situation in which people experience repeated failure at a task. As a result, they decide that the task cannot be done, they stop trying.

"People have trouble using technology they tend to blame themselves. Worse, more they have trouble more helpless they may feel believely that they may be technically inept"



#### Positive Psychology

We need to remove the word failure from our vocabulary, replacing it instead with learning experience. To fail is to learn. We learn more from our failures than our successes.



- Do not blame people when they fail to use your product's properly. 

- Take people's difficulties as signifiers of where the product can be improved.

- Eliminate all error  messages from electronic or computer systems. Instead, provide help and guidance.

- Make it possible to correct problems directly from help and guidance messages. Allow people to continue with their task; Don't impede progress — help make it smooth and continuous. Never much people start over.

- Assume that what people have done is partially correct, so if it is inappropriate, provide the guidance that allows them  to correct the problem and be on their way. 

  