---
title: Human Error
date: 2019-04-30 20:46:27
tags:
---





### Human Error 

Physical limitations are well understood by designers: mental limitations are greatly misunderstood.  We should treat failures the same way: find the fundamental causes and redesign the system do that these can no longer lead to problems.





### Slips



A slip occurs when a person intends to do one action and ends up doing something else. With a slip, the action performed is not the same as the action that was intended.



#### 	Action-based

- The wrong action is performed;
- I poured some milk into my coffee and then put the coffee cup into the fridge. The correct action applied to the wrong object.



#### 	Memory lapse

- Memory fails, so the intended action is not done or its results not evaluated.
- Etc: I forgot to turn off the gas burner on my stove after burning dinner.





#### Mistakes

 A mistake occurs when the wrong goal is established or the wrong plan is formed. From that point on, even if the actions are executed properly they are part of the error, because the action themselves are inappropriate.







#### Rule-based

The person has appropriately diagnosed the situation but then decide upon an erroneous course of action: wrong rule is being followed.

When new procedure have to be invoked or when simple problems arise we can characterise the actions of skilled people as rule-based. All we must do is identify the situation, select the proper rule and then follow it.



####  Knowledge-based

Knowledge based mistakes takes place when the situation is novel enough that there are no skills or rules to cover it. Knowledge-based behavior is controlled at the reflective level and is slow and concious. Provide as much guidance as possible to ensure the current state of things is diplayed in a coherent and easily interpreted format - ideally graphical

- The problem is misdiagnosed because of erroneous or incompete/incomplete knowledge.
- Etc: weight of fuel was computed in pounds instead of kg

#### Memory-lapse

- When these is forgetting at stages of goals/ plans or evaluation.
- Etc: A mechanic failed to complete trouble shooting because of distraction.

Mistakes are errors in setting the goal or plan, and in comparing results with expectations - the higher levels of cognition. Slips happen in the execution of a plan or in perception or interpretation of the outcome - lower stages. Mistakes result from the choice of inappropriate goals and plans or from faulty comparison of the outcome with the goals during evaluation. In mistakes, a person makes a poor decision, misclassifies a situation or fails to take all relevant factors into account.



A common cause of the lapse is an interruption that leads to forgetting the evaluation of the current state of the environment. Lead to mistakes, not slips, because of the goals and plans become wrong.

Forgetting earlier evaluations often means remaking the decision, sometimes erroneously.



<b>Novices</b> are more likey to make mistakes then slips, where as expects are more likely to make slips. Mistakes often arise from ambiouous or unclear information about the current state of a system, lack of good conceptual model and inappropriate procedures.

<b>Confirmation and Error Messages</b>

- Prevent errors by requiring confirmation before a command will be executed especially when the action will destroy something of importance



### Design Lessons from the study of errors



- Adding constraints to block errors ( done through clever use of shape and size )
- Undo - Reversing the operations performed by the previous command, wherever possible.

#### Sensibility Checks

- Electronic systems have another advantage over mechanical ones. They can check to make sure that the requested OP is sensible.
- Etc:  When transferring money, system take note of the normal size of your transactions, and check whether you misenter the amount.

###  Dealing with Error



- Put the knowledge required to operate the technology in the world.

  Dont require that all the knowledge must be in the head. Allow for effecient operation when people have learned all the requirements, are experts who can perform without the knowledge in the world.

  Make the options readily provide feedback: make the make it possible to determine the systems status readily, easily, accurately, and in a form consistent with the person's goals, plans, and expectations





​	





