---
title: Why learning is the most productive habit of 2019
date: 2019-05-03 15:40:05
tags:
---




# Topics required for app development



Learning is on my schedule. There is never a shortage of information and knowledge.
There are some topics that was once overlooked due to passion and excitement in a field. But this is technology and for one thing we may realize that we need to expand our knowledge domain into fields to expand our way of thinking. Introduced to new problems these subjects introduce new solutions to old problems and widens your scope of thinking to develop more functional, technical, systematic solutions to today's applications for engineers, scientists, and economists. The work of these professionals has a huge impact on our daily life - from your microwaves, cell phones, TV, and car to medicine, economy, and national defense. Universities, the military, government agencies, airlines, entertainment studios, software companies, and construction companies are only a few employers who seek individuals with a solid knowledge of calculus. Even doctors and lawyers use calculus to help build the discipline necessary for solving complex problems, such as diagnosing patients or planning a prosecution case. 

1. Linear Algebra creates theoretical ideas that can model applications

2. Probability Theory and Statistics is used in Machine Learning, and a variety of 3D Modeling Software are sections of mathematics that deal with data collection and analysis. Probability is the study of chance and is a very fundamental subject that we apply in everyday living, while statistics is more concerned with how we handle data using different analysis techniques and collection methods

### Calculus
	Limits
		 The component of infinity to math problems. How do you find the limit of a function? This lesson defines limits and provides a variety of examples to understand the concept.
		 
### Diffrential Calculus
		The algebraic method of finding the derivative for a function at any point. The derivative is a concept that is at the root of calculus. There are two ways of introducing this concept, the geometrical way (as the slope of a curve), and the physical way (as a rate of change).
### Integration
		 The algebraic method of finding the integral for a function at any point on the graph. Finding the integral of a function with respect to x means finding the area to the x axis from the curve. The integral is usually called the anti-derivative, because integrating is the reverse process of differentiating. The fundamental theorem of calculus shows that antidifferentiation is the same as integration.
		 
## Multivariate Calculus
		 Multivariable Calculus, also known as Vector Calculus, deals with functions of two variables in 3 dimensional space, as well as computing with vectors instead of lines.