---
title: Signifiers, mappings, feedback, conceptual models
date: 2019-06-08 15:29:59
tags:
---



Human-centered design philosophy. It means starting with a good understanding of people and the needs that design is intended to meet.



### Signifiers

Affordances determine what actions are possible. Signifieirs communicate where the action should take place. Any mark of sounds, perceivable indicator that communicates appropriate behavior to a person.

A <b>bookmark</b> is an example of an accidental signifier its placement indicates how much of the book remains.

People need some way of understanding  the product or service they to use some sign of what it is for, what is happening and what  the alternative actions are. Designers need to provide these clues.

### Mappings

# 

The relationship between the elements of two sets of things. In design and layout of controls and displays. Mappings uses spatial correspondence between the layout of controls and the devices being controlled, it is easy to determine how to use them.

Groupings and proximity are important principles from Gestalt psychology that can be used to map controls to function related controls should be grouped together. Controls should be close to the item being controlled.



### Feedback



- Feedback must be informative, wasteful of resources. Machine spends, recipent no longer here.

Communicating the results of an action - is a well known concept the science of control and information theory.



- Feedback must be immediate: even a  delay of a second can be discerning If the delay is too long, people often give up, going off to do other activities.

Feedback has to be planned. All actions need to be confirmed but in a manner that is obtrusive. Feedback must also be priorited, so that unimportant information is presented in an obtrusive fashion, but important signals are presented in a way that does capture attention. When there are major emergencies, then even important signlas have to be prioritized.

- Too many announcements cause people to ignore all of them, disable all of them, critical and imporant ones are to be missed.
- Poor feedback can be worse than no feedback at all, distracting, uninformative, irritating, anxiety provoking



### Conceptual Models



A conceptual model is an explanation, usually highly simplified of how something works.

- The folder icon you see displayed on a computer screen help people create the conceptual model of documents and folders inside the computer in fact, there are no folders inside computers.
- People's conceptual models for the way that regenerative braking in a hybrid of electrically powered automobile works and quite different for average drivers.
- Conceptual models are often inferred from the device itself. Some models are passed on from person to person. Some from manuals. Model cann be consttructed by experience.
- Major clues to how things work come from their perecived structure.

Conceptual models are avaluable in providing understanding in predicting  how things will behave, and in figuring out what t do when things do not go as planned. A good conceptual models allows us to predict the effects of our actions.

The designers conceptual model is the designer's conception of the look, feel and operation of a product.

The users mental model is developed through interaction wth the product and system image. Designers expects the users model to be identicial to their own because they cannot communicate directly.





" Design is concerned with how things work, how they are controlled and the natur of the interaction between people and technology. When done well, the results are brilliant, pleasurable products when done badly, the products are unusable, leading to great fustration and irritation. Or they might be usable, but force us to behave the way the product wishes rather than as we wish."