---
title: Execution in JavaScript
date: 2019-06-09 18:01:44
tags:
---

- single threaded 
- global context
- Infinite functions
- synchronous

Execution context as the term for the current environment/scope the current code is in.

Function contexts each function call creates a new context, which creates a private scope.



Interpreter in a browser is implemented as a single thread. 1 thing can ever happen in what is called an Execution stack.



### Every call to an interpreter

1. Creation stage

   - Create the scope chain.

   - Create variables, functions and arguments.
   - Determiine the value of 'this'.



2. Activation/Code 
   - Execution stage assigns values, references to functions and interpret / execute code.



`~

​	(function foo(i) {

​		if(i === 3) {
​            return
​        } else {
​            foo(i++)
​        }
​	}(0))

`

~

Each time foo() is called a new execution context is created.

 Once done, it pops off the stack and others until global context is created/reached.

### Pseudo overview of the Javascript execution context.



1. Find  a function.
2. Before executing, create [execution context]
3. Enter creation stage
   - Initialize scope chain
   - create arguments object, check the contet for parameters initialize the name and value and create a reference copy.
   - Scan context for function declarations.. For each function found; create a property in the variable object that is the exact name (function). Save as a reference pointer in-memory to the function. If the function name exists already, the reference pointer value will be overwritten.
   - Scan tthe context for variable eclarations. Each variable declaration found, create a property in variable object that is the variable name, and initialize the value as undefined. If it already exists in the variable object, do nothing and continue scanning.



The execution context is created when the function is invoked but before the actual function is executed. Known as stage 1. and created by scanning the function for parameters and arguments passed in, local variable or function declarations. The result of this scan becomes [variable object] in the [executionContextObj]



